Jianna Monique M. Lucero

Use of AI Tools

RESEARCH AND LEARN:

1. What AI tools are typically used for your role?

As a Mobile App Development Intern, AI tools like Gemini, Github Copilot or ChatGPT are commonly used to generate code for a specific feature or to solve a specific bug. 

2. What are the benefits and risks of using AI in a professional setting?

When it comes to the benefits of using AI in a professional setting is that it can speed up any tasks quickly as well as explaining anything unfamiliar or hard to comprehend. However, it can introduce security risks as AI requires vast amount of data which can cause unauthorized access and data leaks when using open and public-facing AI tools. 

3. What types of information should never be entered into AI tools?

Some of the types of information that should never be entered into AI tools are:
-Personally Identifiable Information
-Financial and Banking Information
-Private Information and Data of Your Business/Company
-Biometric Data
-Medical Records and Health Date

4. How can you fact-check and validate AI-generated content to ensure accuracy?

Fact-checking and validating AI - generated content to ensure accuracy is to make sure a human double checks the AI - generated content. Any output generated by AI should be treated as a draft that needs verification instead of a finished product. Look for any citations and sources when the AI - generated content involves any information. Cross check the information generated by the AI with trusted sites to ensure its credibility.

REFLECTION:

1. When should you use AI for assistance, and when should you rely on your own skills?

I use AI for assistance when I'm currently stuck on an issue and has been searching on the net to no avail to solving the issue. I also can use AI for assistance when it comes to organizing my ideas and polishing any drafts that I've written. Lastly, AI is helpful when I need further understanding with topics that are either overwhelming or difficult to understand all at once. During these moments, AI not only helps in saving time but also gives me a better understanding with any issue I encounter. 

At the same time, I should reply on my skills when the specific task requires decision making and creativity. Tasks that involve making decisions, forming opinions and solving deep and complex problems are some of the things that AI is unable to fully help me. These scenarios are also helpful for allowing me to fully be able to learn on my own rather than rely on AI. AI should only be there to support your thinking and opinions and not replace them. 

2. How can you avoid over-reliance on AI while still benefiting from it?

I  can avoid over-reliance on AI by first solving problems manually or on my own to first assess and understand the problem on my own. Instead of treating AI as a replacement, think of AI as an assistant so that majority to ensure that problems are mostly solved by humans with a bit of help only from AI. In addition, always verify any AI - generated content to ensure that the information is correct and factual.

3. What steps will you take to ensure data privacy when using AI tools?

I will strictly avoid inputting any personal or sensitive information into AI prompts to prevent any data leaks seeing as AI tools are open and public - facing. Instead of using sensitive or personal data into AI prompts, use placeholders, fake names or general description before sending data to an AI model.

TASKS:

1. Identify one task you can improve using an AI tool, and try it out.

One task I can improve using an AI tool is when writing a report/essay. For example, I used AI to create an initial draft on the movie 'Wicked' and included key points such as the characters and plot that I wanted to cover on the essay. This can allow me to organize my thoughts and ideas faster as well as give me a guide on how to write the essay.

2. Review the AI - generated output critically - did it require editing or fact-checking?

Baased on the AI - generated output, it was well-structured and helpful to helping me write the essay. However, it still required further editing and fact-checking to determine if the information provided is true and factual. In addition, not only do I need to verify the factual statements generated by the AI tool but also rewrite certain sections to make it sound more natural and simplified while still containing my own thoughts and opinion.


3. Document one best practice you will follow when using AI tools at Focus Bear

One best practice that I will follow when using AI tools at Focus Bear is to treat AI as a support tool rather than the main author itself. I will ensure that I will always review, edit and validate the output generated by the AI model before using it to ensure accuracy and consistency with the company before integrating it onto the app. 
