Jianna Monique M. Lucero

1. Why do you think Focus Bear was created?

Based on the website, Focus Bear was initially created for people with ADHD and autism. While browsing through the website, I've come to found out that people with ADHD have trouble with focusing and have been observed to have reduced productivity compared to people that do not have ADHD. Furthermore, now that we have modern technology is present, this has further increased the chance of reduced productivity as social media and distracting apps such as Tiktok are within arm's reach. This is a huge issue that needs to be addressed as people with ADHD tend to have some challenges when doing their respective tasks. That is why Focus Bear was created in order to improve concentration and focus not only for people with ADHD and autism but also with people who have trouble with focusing on doing their tasks and tend to get easily distracted.

2. What problem is Focus Bear solving?

As mentioned before, the main problem that Focus Bear is solving is that this app is not only designed and developed for AuDHDers but can also be used for people who struggle with distractions and productivity. Focus Bear not only aims to block distractions from your respective devices such as Tiktok and Facebook, but also improves productivity by guiding you through healthy habits such as exercising or simply doing deep breathing to relax yourself. Thanks to Focus Bear's distraction blocking and real-time habit guidance through implementing morning and evening routines, these features can greatly improve one's focus, concentration and productivity. 

3. Why do you think this mission is important?

I think this mission is important as this is a prevalent issue that I believe affects many individuals. Even though I personally do not know anyone within my friends and family who are diagnosed with ADHD and autism, I have observed that there are times where they have trouble with focusing on their respective tasks as they tend to get distracted with social media or through video games. Furthermore, I have also observed from the Focus Bear website that a study had shown that diagnosis of ADHD within the community has been slowly increasing not only due to greater awareness of the condition but also with an increase in distraction potential due to the presence of modern technology. And in spite of the fact that I have some knowledge regarding this issue, it hasn't been actively promoted at least within our country to my knowledge. That's why I believe that Focus Bear's mission is important as I believe it is an important issue that needs to be addressed these days. This mission not only addresses improving productivity, but also ensures that one's mental well being is taken care of and allowing an individual to be able to work efficiently without the presence of distractions.

4. How does Focus Bear work align with your personal values and interests?

As a Computer Engineering student, I personally aim to create and develop systems that not only gives users a seamless experience but also with improving their daily lives. Based on the projects that I have been a part of, I ensure that the apps I develop serve a purpose and can greatly help a community and the people in it. And when I explored through Focus Bear as well as its website, I felt inspired by what the app and its developers are aiming to solve. As I mentioned before, Focus Bear not only is tackling people with ADHD or autism but also tackles people that get easily distracted. Focus Bear's work aims to improve the lives of people ensuring that they are not easily distracted and promoting healthy habits for improving one's mental health and well being. It aligns with my personal values and interests because I want to be able to be part of projects that can greatly improve one's day to day life significantly through the use of technology instead of hindering it. 

5. Do you personally relate to any of the challenges that Focus Bear aims to solve?

I personally relate to the challenges that Focus Bear aims to solve. Even though I have not been diagnosed with ADHD or autism nor have I been tested, I myself have mostly experienced times in my life where I tend to get distracted with my tasks. There have been times wherein I have found myself taking longer breaks due to me being distracted not only with watching another episode of a series but also with playing video hours for a long period of time. This has resulted in my work being delayed from finishing due to me being easily distracted while either on my computer or on my phone. Fortunately, I have not yet experienced a time where I was unable to submit my school works on time, but I do not want this habit of mine to continue any longer wherein I can be easily distracted. That is why I believe in the mission of Focus Bear and the challenges that it aims to solve. I personally haven't experimented with using productivity apps or distraction blocking apps and I am thankful for not only given the opportunity to work with Focus Bear but also be able to use their app as I have just found out about the app. That is why I personally believe in Focus Bear and relate to the challenges the app aims to solve.